# CocosBuilder - Property Types

This document contains a list of the supported property types of CocosBuilder, and how they are serialized in the CCB file format and in node plug-ins. For serialized values, first the dictionary representation is displayed (for CCB), follow by the binary representation (CCBi). The properties ID number, as used in CCBi is written in parentheses after the type name.


## Main properties

The main properties are used both in the CCB file format, in the CCBi file format, for displaying the inspector panel and for creating node plug-ins.


### Position (0)

Represents a CGPoint (point), and position type.

    Array[ Number(x), Number(y), Number(type) ]
    
    FLOAT x
    FLOAT y
    UINT type
    

### Point (2), PointLock (3)

Represents a CGPoint (point).

    Array[ Number(x), Number(y) ]
    
    FLOAT x
    FLOAT y
    

### Size (1)

Represents a CGSize.
    
    Array[ Number(width), Number(height) ]
    
    FLOAT width
    FLOAT height


### ScaleLock (4)

Represents two float properties, the property names with X and Y appended and if the ratio is locked.

    Array[ Number(x), Number(y), Boolean(locked) ]
    
    FLOAT x
    FLOAT y


### Flip (15)

Represents two BOOL properties, the property names with X and Y appended.

    Array[ Boolean(x), Boolean(y) ]
    
    BOOLEAN x
    BOOLEAN y


### Float (7), Degrees (5)

Represents a float value.

    Number(value)
    
    FLOAT value


### FloatVar (8)

Represents two properties, the property with the standard name and one with Var appended.

    Array[ Number(value), Number(valueVar) ]
    
    FLOAT value
    FLOAT valueVar


### Integer (6), IntegerLabeled (20)

Represents an int value. (For IntegerLabeled, see extra properties below.)

    Number(value)
    
    SINT value


### Byte (12)

Represents an int value in the range 0-255.

    Number(value)
    
    BYTE value


### Check (9)

Represents a BOOL value.

    Boolean(value)
    
    BOOLEAN value


### Text (18)

Represents a NSString value.

    String(text)
    
    CSTRING text


### SpriteFrame (10)

Represents a CCSpriteFrame loaded from a sprite sheet or created from a image file.

    Array[ String(spriteSheetFile, spriteFile) ]
    
    CSTRING spriteSheetFile
    CSTRING spriteFile

_spriteSheetFile_: Relative name of spriteSheetFile, can be empty string (not NULL).

_spriteFile_: Name of sprite in sprite sheet, or name of file if if sheet is empty string.


### Texture (11)

Represents a CCTexture loaded from an image file.

    String(spriteFile)
    
    CSTRING spriteFile
    
_spriteFile_: Relative name of image file


### FntFile (17)

Represents a FNT file as used by CCLabelBMFont.

    String(fntFile)
    
    CSTRING fntFile

_fntFile_: Relative name of the FNT file


### FontTTF (19)

Represents a name of a TTF font as used by CCLabelTTF

    String(fontName)
    
    CSTRING fontName

_fontName_: Name of the Font, e.g. Helvetica


### Color3 (13)

Represents a ccColor3B.

    Array [ Number ( r), Number (g), Number (b) ]
    
    BYTE r
    BYTE g
    BYTE b

_r_, _g_, _b_: Color components as integers in the range 0-255


### Color4FVar (14)

Represents two ccColor4F properties, the latter with "Var" appended.

    Array [
        Array[ Number ( r), Number (g), Number (b), Number (a) ],
        Array[ Number ( rVar), Number (gVar), Number (bVar), Number (aVar) ]
    ]
    
    FLOAT r
    FLOAT g
    FLOAT b
    FLOAT a
    FLOAT rVar
    FLOAT gVar
    FLOAT bVar
    FLOAT aVar

_r_, _g_, _b_, _a_: Color components as float in the range 0-1

_rVar_, _gVar_, _bVar_, _aVar_: Color components as float in the range 0-1, assigned to property with "Var" appended to it's name


### Blendmode (16)

Represents a ccBlendFunc property with src and dst components.

    Array[ Number(src), Number(dst) ]
    
    UINT src
    UINT dst

_src_, _dst_: Blend func components as integers.


### Block (21)

Represents a block property. The block will contain a callback to a target and selector and is created when loading the ccbi file in the app.

    Array[ String(selector), Number(target) ]
    
    CSTRING selector
    UINT target

_selector_: Name of selector
_target_: Target is 0 = None, 1 = Root node, 2 = Owner


## Extra properties used by plug-ins

The extra properties are used only by plug-ins to display additional information in the inspector panel.


### Separator

The separator is only in CocosBuilder to display a separator/header in the inspector panel. Only its _displayName_ is used and _name_ can be left out.


### SeparatorSub

This property is identical to Separator, only it is not as prominent and hasn't got a background color.


### IntegerLabeled

This property allows a plug-in to present a drop down menu for setting an integer. The integer is serialized identically to an ordinary Integer type, but the property has the _extra_ field set. The extra field has the the format: < name 1 >|< int value 1 >[|< name 2 >|< int value 1 >[|…]]. For example (as used in CCParticleSystem):

    Gravity mode|0|Radius mode|1


### StartStop

The StartStop property is used to display a start and stop button in the inspector panel. Set the names of the buttons using the _displayName_, but with a | separating the two names. For instance:

    Start Particles|Stop Particles

Clicking the buttons will cause different selectors of the selected node to be called. Which selectors to call is specified by the _extra_ field, and the two selectors are separated by |. E.g:

    resetSystem|stopSystem


## Animated Properties

Animated properties are saved somewhat differently from normal properties and are used in keyframes and base values.

### Visible (2)

Represents a BOOL value.

    Boolean(value)
    
    BOOLEAN value

### Degrees (2)

Represents a float value.

    Number(value)
    
    FLOAT value

### Position (3)

Represents a CGPoint (point), the position type is set by the base value.

    Array[ Number(x), Number(y), Number(type) ]
    
    FLOAT x
    FLOAT y

### ScaleLock (4)

Represents two float properties, the property names with X and Y appended, if it is locked is set by the base value.

    Array[ Number(x), Number(y) ]
    
    FLOAT x
    FLOAT y

### Byte (5)

Represents an int value in the range 0-255.

    Number(value)
    
    BYTE value

### Color3 (6)

Represents a ccColor3B.

    Array [ Number ( r), Number (g), Number (b) ]
    
    BYTE r
    BYTE g
    BYTE b

_r_, _g_, _b_: Color components as integers in the range 0-255

### SpriteFrame (7)

Represents a CCSpriteFrame loaded from a sprite sheet or created from a image file.

    Array[ String(spriteFile, spriteSheetFile) ]
    
    CSTRING spriteSheetFile
    CSTRING spriteFile

_spriteSheetFile_: Relative name of spriteSheetFile, can be empty string (not NULL).

_spriteFile_: Name of sprite in sprite sheet, or name of file if if sheet is empty string.